[Guide] Intro & Quickstart guide (#9263)
Rapptz/discord.py: docs/guide/quickstart.rst

:orphan:

.. currentmodule:: discord

.. _guide_quickstart:

Quickstart
===========

This page will contain a simple explanation of how to make a basic bot using the commands extension "ext.commands".
Before you begin, make sure to install discord.py - see :ref:`guide_intro_installation` for more information.

Obtaining a Bot Token
----------------------

You will need a bot application before being able to run a bot. A step-by-step tutorial with screenshots follows:

1. Go to the `Discord Developer Portal <https://discord.com/developers/applications/>`_.

2. Create a new application if you have not made one already:
    .. image:: /images/discord_create_app_button.png
        :scale: 90 %

3. Navigate over to the ``bot`` tab:
    .. image:: /images/discord_bot_tab.png
        :scale: 80%

4. Create a new Bot user if you have not done so already:
    .. image:: /images/discord_create_bot_user.png

> 5. If you need these intents, scroll down and click on these check boxes:

Reviewer: Assuming these are beginners to discord bots, they likely won't know what intents they need. Perhaps this should link to the intents guide, once created.

    .. image:: /images/discord_privileged_intents.png

6. Your bot token will only be retrievable upon creation and looks like this:
    .. image:: /images/discord_bot_token.png

6a. Otherwise it will look like this:
    .. image:: /images/discord_bot_token_no_copy.png

.. danger::

    This token is **VERY IMPORTANT** and you should treat it like the password to your bot. Keep it as secure as possible and never give this to anyone.

>     If you ever leak it, you can click the ``Regenerate`` button to forcibly invalidate all copies of the token. This will also terminate all running instances of this bot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you ever leak it, you can click the ``Regenerate`` button to forcibly invalidate all copies of the token. This will also terminate all running instances of your bot.
```

The rest of this paragraph uses "you" and "your" so it seems appropriate to do the same here.

.. _guide_quickstart_client_secret:

.. warning::

>     You may be thinking to use the ``Client Secret`` for your bot token. This is **NOT** what you are looking for, you need the bot **Token**, which is a completely different format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You may be thinking of using the ``Client Secret`` for your bot token. This is **NOT** what you are looking for - you need the bot **Token**, which is a completely different format.
```
Slightly better grammar.

    .. image:: /images/discord_client_secret_big_nono.png
        :scale: 90 %

A Simple Bot
-------------

This step-by-step walk-through will show you how to make a bot using the commands framework.

.. note::

    This walk-through does not cover application commands (slash commands). For a detailed walk-through of application commands, see _guide_app_commands.

1. Create a new Python file in the folder you want to work in.

    .. warning::

>         Do not name the file ``discord.py``, this will cause conflicts with the discord.py library. Also, do not create a sub-folder in your project named ``discord``, as that too will cause conflicts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Do not name the file ``discord.py``, as this will cause conflicts with the discord.py library. Also, do not create a sub-folder in your project named ``discord``, as that too will cause conflicts.
```

.. warning::

    Using :meth:`@bot.event <ext.commands.Bot.event>` is also valid, but keep in mind that using :meth:`@bot.event <ext.commands.Bot.event>` with the ``on_message`` event can cause your commands to stop responding.

    To remedy this, either switch to :meth:`@bot.listen() <ext.commands.Bot.listen>`, or add :meth:`~ext.commands.Bot.process_commands` to your ``on_message`` event:

    .. code-block:: python

        @bot.event
        async def on_message(message: discord.Message):
            print(f'Received "{message.clean_content}" from {message.author}')
            # IMPORTANT:
            await bot.process_commands(message)

.. warning::

    ``on_ready`` can and will be called multiple times throughout your bot's uptime. You should avoid doing any kind of state-management here, such as connecting and loading your database.

.. code-block:: python

    @bot.command()
    async def echo(ctx: commands.Context, *, sentence: commands.clean_content):
        await ctx.send(sentence)

Here's where our commands will be defined. We use the :meth:`@bot.command() <ext.commands.Bot.command>` decorator to flag this function as a command.

> This creates a command ``!echo`` that we can type into a channel, and the bot will respond with the given sentence. A few key features:

Reviewer: This will not work given default intents.

        File "venv\Lib\discord\client.py", line 704, in run
            return future.result()
        File "venv\Lib\discord\client.py", line 683, in runner
            await self.start(*args, **kwargs)
        File "venv\Lib\discord\client.py", line 646, in start
            await self.login(token)
        File "venv\Lib\discord\client.py", line 512, in login
            data = await self.http.static_login(token.strip())
        File "venv\Lib\discord\http.py", line 537, in static_login
            raise LoginFailure('Improper token has been passed.') from exc
    discord.errors.LoginFailure: Improper token has been passed.

This means you have passed an invalid token to :meth:`bot.run() <ext.commands.Bot.run>`:

- Perhaps you are reading from your secure file incorrectly?
- Did you copy the :ref:`Client Secret <guide_quickstart_client_secret>` instead of your bot token?
- Did you regenerate your token?

Be sure to copy the correct token from the bot tab on the Discord developer portal. A real token looks like: ::

    MjM4NDk0NzU2NTIxMzc3Nzky.CunGFQ.wUILz7z6HoJzVeq6pyHPmVgQgV4

My bot isn't responding to commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you ran a command, but the bot isn't responding, there can be a few reasons why.

Reviewer: add message content intent to this list

:orphan:

.. currentmodule:: discord

.. _guide_quickstart:

Quickstart
===========

This page will contain a simple explanation of how to make a basic bot using the commands extension "ext.commands".
Before you begin, make sure to install discord.py - see :ref:`guide_intro_installation` for more information.

Obtaining a Bot Token
----------------------

You will need a bot application before being able to run a bot. A step-by-step tutorial with screenshots follows:

1. Go to the `Discord Developer Portal <https://discord.com/developers/applications/>`_.

2. Create a new application if you have not made one already:
    .. image:: /images/discord_create_app_button.png
        :scale: 90 %

3. Navigate over to the ``bot`` tab:
    .. image:: /images/discord_bot_tab.png
        :scale: 80%

4. Create a new Bot user if you have not done so already:

>     .. image:: /images/discord_create_bot_user.png

Reviewer 3: This image is not found, but more importantly this step is no longer necessary. All applications now have a bot user by default.

    .. image:: /images/discord_bot_token.png

6a. Otherwise it will look like this:
    .. image:: /images/discord_bot_token_no_copy.png

.. danger::

    This token is **VERY IMPORTANT** and you should treat it like the password to your bot. Keep it as secure as possible and never give this to anyone.
    If you ever leak it, you can click the ``Regenerate`` button to forcibly invalidate all copies of the token. This will also terminate all running instances of your bot.

.. _guide_quickstart_client_secret:

.. warning::

    You may be thinking of using the ``Client Secret`` for your bot token. This is **NOT** what you are looking for - you need the bot **Token**, which is a completely different format.

    .. image:: /images/discord_client_secret_big_nono.png
        :scale: 90 %

A Simple Bot
-------------

This step-by-step walk-through will show you how to make a bot using the commands framework.

.. note::

    This walk-through does not cover application commands (slash commands). For a detailed walk-through of application commands, see _guide_app_commands.

1. Create a new Python file in the folder you want to work in.

    .. warning::

>         Do not name the file ``discord.py``, as this will cause conflicts with the discord.py library. Also, do not create a sub-folder in your project named ``discord``, as that too will cause conflicts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Do not name the file ``discord.py``, as this will cause conflicts with the discord.py library. Likewise, do not create a sub-folder in your project named ``discord``, as that too will cause conflicts.
```

2. Open the new Python file in your preferred editor.

    If you do not have an editor installed, you can use a community recommended one, such as `Visual Studio Code <https://code.visualstudio.com/>`_,
    `PyCharm <https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/>`_ or `Sublime Text 4 <https://www.sublimetext.com/>`_.
    We don't recommend Python's built in IDLE, as the lack of features compared to other simple editors makes it very bothersome for projects with many files.

3. Now you can start creating your bot. The following steps will go over a simple bot line-by-line to help you understand what's happening.

First, you need to import the discord.py library:

.. code-block:: python3

    import discord
    from discord.ext import commands

> We import ``discord.ext.commands`` here as we will need it for our bot.

Reviewer 3: The manner of importing this is important, it must be `from discord.ext import commands` due to the fact it's a namespace package. There should be some verbiage saying so.

.. code-block:: python3

    intents = discord.Intents.default()
    intents.message_content = True

>     bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix="!", description="This is my awesome bot!", intents=intents)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    bot = commands.Bot(command_prefix='!', description='This is my awesome bot!', intents=intents)
```

We use single quotes throughout the documentation and code. That being said, generally subclassing is preferred nowadays since almost all the examples do it.

> This is your bot instance. You can name the variable whatever you like but for simplicity's sake we will name it ``bot``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is your bot instance. You can name the variable whatever you like but it is customary to name :class:`~ext.commands.Bot` instances ``bot``.
```

You will need to specify a ``command_prefix`` here, we use ``!``, but you can use any string, or a list of strings for multiple prefixes.
We also add the :attr:`Intents.message_content` intent, so that our bot can read regular text messages. You can read more in the `Intents guide <_guide_intents>`_.

.. note::

    As of 2.0, the ``intents`` argument is required.
    ``Intents`` are the method to specify which gateway events you wish to receive. ``Intents.default()`` means you will receive all events that are not locked behind bot verification.

>     For more information, see :ref:`intents_primer`.

Reviewer 3: This is unnecessary, the person reading this most likely is only familiar with 2.0. Past facing statements like this are out of place.

.. code-block:: python

    @bot.listen()
    async def on_ready():

>         print(f"Ready! I am {bot.user} and my ID is {bot.user.id}")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        print(f'Ready! I am {bot.user} and my ID is {bot.user.id}')
```

> This is the ``ready`` event. It is called when the bot has finished loading and everything is cached.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the :func:`on_ready` event. It is called when the bot has finished loading and everything necessary is cached.
```

We use the :meth:`@bot.listen() <ext.commands.Bot.listen>` decorator as to not override the main event.
For a list of available events, see :ref:`discord-api-events`.

> .. _guide_quickstart_bot_event_warning:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

.. warning::

    Using :meth:`@bot.event <ext.commands.Bot.event>` is also valid, but keep in mind that using :meth:`@bot.event <ext.commands.Bot.event>` with the ``on_message`` event can cause your commands to stop responding.

    To remedy this, either switch to :meth:`@bot.listen() <ext.commands.Bot.listen>`, or add :meth:`~ext.commands.Bot.process_commands` to your ``on_message`` event:

    .. code-block:: python

        @bot.event
        async def on_message(message: discord.Message):
            print(f'Received "{message.clean_content}" from {message.author}')
            # IMPORTANT:

>             await bot.process_commands(message)

Reviewer 3: This is just repeating verbiage in the FAQ already. Just link to it.

> .. warning::
> 
>     ``on_ready`` can and will be called multiple times throughout your bot's uptime. You should avoid doing any kind of state-management here, such as connecting and loading your database.

Reviewer 3: This verbiage is also in the `on_ready` page. I suppose this one in particular is fine to repeat.
```suggestion
.. warning::

    :func:`on_ready` can and will be called multiple times throughout your bot's uptime. You should avoid doing any kind of state-management here, such as connecting and loading your database.
```

.. code-block:: python

    @bot.command()
    async def echo(ctx: commands.Context, *, sentence: commands.clean_content):

>         await ctx.send(sentence)

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is a particularly good intro command. It does too much from the get go. It's better if you have simpler converters (such as `int`) and simpler parameters. I know it's weird to say considering this uses a single parameter but you have to understand quite a lot from this simple example. 

The `commands.rst` guide actually tries to do it in a digestible order. It would be ideal to link back to it instead of trying to repeat its content.
